---
title: "Chain of Images for Intuitively Reasoning"
collection: publications
category: arxiv
permalink: /publication/Chain-of-images
date: 2023-11-09
venue: 'Arxiv'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09241'
citation: 'Meng, F., Yang, H., Wang, Y., & Zhang, M. (2023). Chain of Images for Intuitively Reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.09241.'
---

## Abstract

The human brain is naturally equipped to comprehend and interpret visual information rapidly. When confronted with complex problems or concepts, we use flowcharts, sketches, and diagrams to aid our thought process. Leveraging this inherent ability can significantly enhance logical reasoning. However, current Large Language Models (LLMs) do not utilize such visual intuition to help their thinking. Even the most advanced version language models (e.g., GPT-4V and LLaVA) merely align images into textual space, which means their reasoning processes remain purely verbal. To mitigate such limitations, we present a Chain of Images (CoI) approach, which can convert complex language reasoning problems to simple pattern recognition by generating a series of images as intermediate representations. Furthermore, we have developed a CoI evaluation dataset encompassing 15 distinct domains where images can intuitively aid problem-solving. Based on this dataset, we aim to construct a benchmark to assess the capability of future multimodal large-scale models to leverage images for reasoning. In supporting our CoI reasoning, we introduce a symbolic multimodal large language model (SyMLLM) that generates images strictly based on language instructions and accepts both text and image as input. Experiments on Geometry, Chess and Common Sense tasks sourced from the CoI evaluation dataset show that CoI improves performance significantly over the pure-language Chain of Thoughts (CoT) baselines.
